# Granger - HRV
RR index as a potential indicator of interaction between subjects

Introduction: One of the main problems in Neuroscience is the human-human interface building from brain signals analysis, which is done using expensive and unportable devices and be affected by the low signal-noise reason. Objective: The heart rate is easily collected by portable sensors which are more and more accurate and it is associated with the Autonomic Nervous System, therefore it is proposed to investigate its RR index as a potential indicator of interaction between subjects. Methods: A blind-experiment was carried out with three pairs of people without replacement (age: 23 ± 4 year, weight: 66 ± 12 kgf,  height:173 ± 10 cm), with the Heart Rate Variability RR index collected while they interact in a unidimensional movement game (Experimental Group) and while playing the same game singly (Control Group). The collected data was analyzed to check the Granger Causality existence in heart rate from each subject of each pair. Results: Using 5% significance level and lag varying from 0.8s to 4s, one out of three events (33%) from the Experimental Group had Granger causality between individuals RR index, while in the Control Group two out of three events (67%) had Granger causality between individuals RR index. It was found Granger Causality and Bootstrap Pearson Correlation between the virtual players' positions in all events from the Experimental Group and in any events from the Control Group. Conclusion: There is no consistent evidence in the studied population that the designed interaction could be identified by involved individuals' heart rate variability.

Keywords: Granger causality; Heart rate variability; HRV; Bootstrap correlation; Human-human interface; RR index.
